Adds search relevance documentation (#1801)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/search-relevance/index.md

---
layout: default
title: Search relevance
nav_order: 55
has_children: false
has_toc: false
redirect_from:
  - /search-plugins/search-relevance/
---

# Compare search results

> Compare search results is an experimental feature. For updates on the progress of Compare search results and other search relevance features, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, join the [discussion on the OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-experimental-feature-compare-search-results/11331).    

Author: Yes, the link will be live when we release. It is not set up yet. Thanks for checking!

> Compare search results is an experimental feature. For updates on the progress of Compare search results and other search relevance features, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, join the [discussion on the OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-experimental-feature-compare-search-results/11331).    

Reviewer: Is the forum link stable? i.e. can I start including it in other docs?

> Compare search results is an experimental feature. For updates on the progress of Compare search results and other search relevance features, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, join the [discussion on the OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-experimental-feature-compare-search-results/11331).    

Reviewer 2: Global: It's a little strange for the formal name of the feature to have only the initial word capitalized. I think we should indicate in some way that this is the proper name of the feature (probably by capitalizing each word).

Reviewer 3: @macrakis What is the official title of the feature? We've been calling it Search Comparison UI, Search Comparison Tool, Search Results Comparison Tool (my favorite). I agree with @natebower on the capitalization.

{: .warning}

> Compare search results is the first search relevance feature in OpenSearch. It lets you compare search results from two queries side by side to determine if one query produces better results than the other. Using this tool, you can evaluate search quality through experimenting with queries. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Compare search results is the first search relevance feature in OpenSearch. It lets you compare search results from two queries side by side to determine whether one query produces better results than the other. Using this tool, you can evaluate search quality by experimenting with queries. 
```

For example, you can see how results change when you apply one of the following query changes:

- Weighting different fields differently
- Different stemming or lemmatization strategies
- Shingling

> 

Reviewer 4: Should these be ended with periods?

Author: Removed periods as per @vagimeli's[ comment ](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/pull/1801#discussion_r1015805826)

## Prerequisites

Before you get started, you must index data in OpenSearch. To learn how to create a new index, see [Index data]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/index-data). 

Alternatively, you can add sample data in OpenSearch Dashboards using the following steps:

1. On the top menu bar, go to **OpenSearch Dashboards > Overview**.
1. Select **View app directory**.
1. Select **Add sample data**.  
1. Choose one of the built-in datasets and select **Add data**.

> 

Reviewer 5: Delete extra line space.

## Using search relevance in OpenSearch Dashboards

To compare search results in OpenSearch Dashboards, perform the following steps.

**Step 1:** On the top menu bar, go to **OpenSearch Plugins > Search Relevance**.  

**Step 2:** Enter the search text in the search bar.

> **Step 3:** Select an index for **Query 1** and enter a query (request body only) in [OpenSearch Query DSL]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/query-dsl). The `GET` HTTP method and the `_search` endpoint are implicit. Use the `%SearchText%` variable to refer to the text in the search bar.

Reviewer 6: Is **Query 1** supposed to be your first query in a series of queries? If so, should we define somewhere in the process that we'll identify different queries by number?

The following is an example query:

```json
{
  "query": {
    "multi_match": {
      "query": "%SearchText%",
      "fields": [ "title", "text" ]
    }
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer 5: Should this line space (line 58) be before step 4? For example, step 5 doesn't have a line space before it.

> The following example query boosts the `title` field in search results:

Reviewer 2: Should "the" precede "search results"?

```json
{
  "query": {
    "multi_match": {
      "query": "%SearchText%",
      "fields": [ "title^3", "text" ]
    }
  }
}
```

**Step 5:** Select **Search** and compare the results in **Result 1** and **Result 2**.

The following example screen shows a search for the word "container" in the `title` and `text` fields with and without boosting the `title`:

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/search_relevance.png" alt="Compare search results"/>{: .img-fluid }

> If a result in Result 1 appears in Result 2, the `Up` and `Down` indicators below the result number signify how many places the result moved up or down compared to the same result in Results 2. In the example above, the document with the ID 10 is `Up 1` place in Result 2 compared to Result 1, and `Down 1` place in Result 1 compared to Result 2. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a result in Result 1 appears in Result 2, the `Up` and `Down` indicators below the result number signify how many places the result moved up or down compared to the same result in Result 2. In this example, the document with the ID 10 is `Up 1` place in Result 2 compared to Result 1 and `Down 1` place in Result 1 compared to Result 2. 
```

## Changing the number of results

> By default, OpenSearch returns the top 10 results. To change the number of returned results to a different value, specify the `size` parameter in the query as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, OpenSearch returns the top 10 results. To change the number of returned results to a different value, specify the `size` parameter in the query:
```

```json
{
  "size": 15,
  "query": {
    "multi_match": {
      "query": "%SearchText%",
      "fields": [ "title^3", "text" ]
    }
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer 5: Delete line space?

> Setting `size` to a high value (for example, larger than 250) may degrade performance.

Reviewer 6: Larger than 250 documents?

---
layout: default
title: Search relevance
nav_order: 55
has_children: false
has_toc: false
redirect_from:
  - /search-plugins/search-relevance/
---

# Search relevance

> Search relevance is an experimental feature. Therefore, we do not recommend the use of search relevance in a production environment. For updates on the progress of search relevance, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, join the [discussion on the OpenSearch forum]((https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-experimental-feature-compare-search-results/11331).    

Reviewer: Agreed! "Search relevance" is far too broad.

> Search relevance is an experimental feature. Therefore, we do not recommend the use of search relevance in a production environment. For updates on the progress of search relevance, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, join the [discussion on the OpenSearch forum]((https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-experimental-feature-compare-search-results/11331).    

Author: @lauralexis @macrakis: The doc currently lives under Search plugins > Search relevance. Do you think the title should be "Compare search results", while the left nav should say Search plugins > Search relevance?

> Search relevance is an experimental feature. Therefore, we do not recommend the use of search relevance in a production environment. For updates on the progress of search relevance, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, join the [discussion on the OpenSearch forum]((https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-experimental-feature-compare-search-results/11331).    

Author: Will remove.

> Search relevance is an experimental feature. Therefore, we do not recommend the use of search relevance in a production environment. For updates on the progress of search relevance, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, join the [discussion on the OpenSearch forum]((https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-experimental-feature-compare-search-results/11331).    

Reviewer 6: @kolchfa-aws: Since this is boilerplate text, let's keep it in here.

@lauralexis: For context, our general rule with all experimental features to use them with caution, which includes using `read_only` features for production datasets. For consistency with other experimental features, I say we keep the warning in, then remove once the feature is no longer behind a feature flag.

> Search relevance is an experimental feature. Therefore, we do not recommend the use of search relevance in a production environment. For updates on the progress of search relevance, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, join the [discussion on the OpenSearch forum]((https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-experimental-feature-compare-search-results/11331).    

Reviewer 7: I think it makes sense to err on the side of caution, however, the user might question why we are recommending it shouldn't be used with production data sets, and I can't think of a reason. 

@macrakis Can you think of a reason this tool shouldn't be used with production data sets?

> Search relevance is an experimental feature. Therefore, we do not recommend the use of search relevance in a production environment. For updates on the progress of search relevance, or if you want to leave feedback that could help improve the feature, join the [discussion on the OpenSearch forum]((https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-experimental-feature-compare-search-results/11331).    

Reviewer 7: @kolchfa-aws I think it is OK, especially given the additional clarification you provided: "Compare search results is the first search relevance feature in OpenSearch."

{: .warning}

> Search relevance lets you compare search results to determine if one search configuration produces better results than the other. Using search relevance, you can evaluate search quality through experimenting with queries. 

Author: Will reword
